Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure? Ans: It helps programmer different ways to store data on their computer. It helps to store
the data and reuse it efficiently. Data structure allows us to organize and store data.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively? Ans: The various types of operation are insertion, deletion,
searching, sorting and traversal. The areas in which data structure are used are compiler design, operating system, numerical
analysis and artificial intelligence.

what is an Array? Ans: An array is a container object that holds a fixed
number of values in a single type.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList? Ans: An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of
values in single type. But ArrayList is a variable-length data structure. Array size has to be initialized directly so
the size can not be changed but ArrayList is resizeable when it is needed.

what is LinkedList? Ans: LinkedList is just a sequence of elements, where each elements
links to the next elements which links the next elements. It can have different types of data, string, characters, number.
The elements can be unsorted or sorted.

How is an Array different from Linked List? Ans: Array is different from linked list because array
is a container object that holds fixed number of values so once the number is fixed it then that number
is fixed for that code. But for LinkedList the size does not need to be specified. And for memory the Array is
less but linked list memory is more.

what is queue? Ans: Queue is an abstract data structure and it is a liner structure which follows
a particular order in which the operations are preformed. It uses the order of first in first out (FIFO).

what is stack? Ans: Stack is linear data structure that is used to store the collection of objects. It uses last in first out (LIFO).

what is FIFO and LIFO? Ans: FIFO is first in first out and LIFO is last in first out.

what is the order of complexity? Ans: The runtime of an algorithm changes depending on the amount of input data.

what is the best case to search an element from an array? Ans: O(1). It uses first in first out.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array? And: O(log N). It uses last in first out.

what is tree in data structure? Ans: Tree is a hierarchical data structure defined as a collection of nodes. The nodes represent
value and are connected by edges. And it is nonlinear hierarchical.

what is graph in data structure? Ans: Graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are
connected by links. And it is a non-linear data structure of nodes and edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap? Ans: Hashtable doesn't allow any null key or value whereas HashMap
allows one null key and multiple null values.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.

How HashMap works in java? Ans: It is a data structure that allows us to store object and retrieve it in
constant time. Objects are stored by the calling put (key, value) method of HashMap and retrieved by calling the get (key).

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs? Ans: ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown when an array has been
accessed with an illegal index, it is either greater than or equal to the size of an array. It occurs when we access an array
that is backed by an array with an invalid index.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array? Ans: You can use the clone method to clone an array
and use copyOf methods of Array class. And you can use arraycopy method of System class.

What is difference between an array and a linked list? Ans: LinkedList is an ordered collection of elements of the same
type in which each elements is connected to the next using pointer but array is a collection of elements of a similar data type.

What is DFS and BFS? Ans: BFS is breadth first search and DFS is depth first search. DFS uses stack data structure.
BFS uses queue data structure for finding the shortest path.

What is Recursion? Ans: Recursion is a method that calls itself.

What are linear and non linear data Structures? Ans: A liner data structure elements connects to each other sequentially.
A non-linear data structure elements connect to each other hierarchically.

What is Big-(O)-notation? Ans: Is a way to measure an algorithm's efficiency. It measure the time it takes to run your function as the input grows.
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity? Ans: Insertion sort O(n^2). Quick sort O(n^2).

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


